A Regular Expression,
abbreviated to RE, regexp, regex and more,
is commonly used in software development and
searching algorithms for matching patterns in text;
they are particularly important for
implementing programming languages.
Regular Expressions are powerful formulae
for defining patterns to search for,
yet they are also very simple; they can be
defined with combinations of just four symbols:
the ‘Kleene star’ (shown as an asterisk),
‘alternation’ (a vertical bar)
and the open & closed parentheses.
Say we want to search these
Terms and Conditions for important dates.
For simplicity we’ll only worry about numerical dates.
There are only a few different formats
we can expect dates to be in right?
We just search for day-day-month-month-year-year.
However it could be day-day-month-month-year-year-year-year
if you’re being formal,
or maybe just day-day-month-month
if you don’t need the year.
But the first month digit can only be 0 or 1
and the first day digit can only be 0 to 3.
Sometimes people ignore the 0 if the date is
only one digit, so it could just be day-month.
But for other people the month comes before the day
so we have to account for that too.
My word it’s all so complicated isn’t it?
Thankfully, we can use Regular Expressions to
simplify writing rules for the patterns we want to match.
This series of videos explores the idea more closely,
looking at the meaning of these basic symbols,
some common extended syntax, and the close connection
between Regular Expressions and Finite State Automata.